Welcome back.
In this video, we're going to look
at some advanced set operations,
which is why sets are useful compared to lists and tuples.
So what I've got here is my art_friends
and my science_friends.
In arts, we've got Rolf, Anne and Jen.
And in science, we've got Jen and Charlie.
So a couple of things you can notice about these sets
is that Jen does both art and science, right?
She's in both sets.
Rolf and Anne do art but not science.
And Charlie does science but not art.
And in total, we have four people,
Rolf, Anne, Jen and Charlie.
So we can use sets to extract that information
from this data.
Here's how.
Let's get those people that do art but not science.
So we'll say art_but_not_science.
And what you want to do
is you wanna say art_friends.difference(science_friends).
So the difference gives you which elements
are in art that are not in science.
So the ones that are in art but not in science
means that it's gonna do Rolf, Anne and Jen,
it's gonna take away all the elements that are here
that are also here.
So in this case, Jen is both, so it's gonna get taken away
and what you'll get back is Rolf and Anne.
Of course you can do science_but_not_art
and it's just the opposite
science_friends.difference(art_friends).
And what that's gonna do is it's gonna take
your science friends, Jen and Charlie
and it's gonna take away those that are in art, so Jen.
And it's gonna leave you just with Charlie.
Let's print those out.
And you'll see what I mean.
So in the first one you have Anne and Rolf
but not Jen.
And in the second one you have Charlie but not Jen.
Sometimes what you want is something
called the symmetric difference,
which is members that aren't in both sets.
So what members are not in both sets?
Rolf, Anne and Charlie.
So let's get that.
So not_in_both
will be art_friends.symmetric_difference(science_friends).
So you get Anne, Rolf and Charlie.
So those are the members that are not in both.
Since Jen is the only one that's in both,
what you end up is everything together
except the ones that are in both.
Of course because it says symmetric difference,
it doesn't matter which one goes first.
You can put
science_friends.symmetric_difference, art_friends
or you can do what we've done here,
art_friends.symmetric_difference(science_friends).
So to recap, difference does elements
that are in one but not the other,
where the symmetric difference does elements
that are not in both.
If you wanted the members that are in both sets,
so Jen, you can do that
with something called the intersection.
So you could do who is doing art and science,
art_and_science and that would be art_friends.intersection
with science_friends.
And what that would give you is just Jen in her own set.
Notice that this is still a set
because it has the curly braces around it.
So that is a set of one element.
Finally, if you wanted all the people
that are studying any subject, but without duplicates,
you could do all_friends is art_friends.union
with science_friends.
And that is gonna unite both sets
and give you one big set with everybody in it.
Of course, note that Jen is there twice,
so it's only gonna appear once in the final set
because sets cannot contain duplicates
and you can see that this is still a set
so there are no duplicates in it.
These operations are why sets are useful.
For example, you could have a lottery game
where your user has a few numbers
and the system has decided on six numbers
that are the lottery winners.
By having them both on sets, you could calculate
the intersection of them two,
which elements the user has matched
with the winning elements
and then calculate the user's winnings like that.
And that is, in fact, going to be one of the challenges
for this section.
If you're not completely sure when to use
each of these data structures, lists, tuples and sets,
don't worry too much,
over time you will get better at it.
And most of the time, you'll be using tuples and lists.
Sets are reserved for when you want to use these operations.
Thanks for joining me in this video,
I hope you've learned something,
and I'll see you in the next one.